# Adversarially Robust Face Identification
Higher School of Economics

Applied Mathematics and Computer Science Bachelor's Thesis

Student: Ilya Kontaev

Supervisor: Pavel Shashkin

*Abstract:*

The main objective of this Bachelor’s thesis is to improve robustness and generalization ability of face identification.

GAN(Generative Adversarial Networks) framework will be used. There are two modules in such type of neural networks: Discriminator and Generator. Discriminator is in fact a face identification model. Generator can generate novel synthetic face image and perturbation mask from a given original face image. These new obtained “fake” face image can be used to exploit identification of Discriminator. Thereby, while a Discriminator neural network tries to differentiate between real samples and the ones generated by the Generator network, the Generator is trying to deceive the Discriminator. Both networks will be trained in end-to-end manner to minimize adversarial and cross-entropy loss functions simultaneously. In result, more robust face identification model will be trained.

Despite infamous reputation of convolutional neural networks are hard to interpret, intermediate feature maps can provide some insights to semantic representation of face embeddings. Interpretability is defined in a way that each dimension of the semantic representation is able to represent a face structure or a distinctive part of the face. Сonsequently, this obtained knowledge also can be used for construction of more adversarially robust face identification systems.

## Datasets
https://github.com/deepinsight/insightface/wiki/Dataset-Zoo
- Training: CelebA
- Identification evaluation: LFW

## Models
- Generator: [UNet](https://arxiv.org/abs/1505.04597) like Encoder-Decoder(in current version skip-connections are missing)
- Discriminator: [Mobiface](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.11080.pdf) architecture with [AirFace](https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.12256)([ArcFace](https://arxiv.org/abs/1801.07698) like) loss

## Results
### *Work in progress...*
